Nextjs same origin proxy (#98)
infinum/frontend-handbook: React/Next/Development proxy.md

- [custom reverse proxy](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/master/examples/with-custom-reverse-proxy)
- [redirects](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/redirects)

The problem with the former is that it runs on a different server. When testing local changes on e.g. a phone, we will get unresolvable CORS issues.
The problem with the latter is that NextJS redirects don't provide a possibility to manipulate requests and/or responses. They just redirect.

## The fix

Prerequisites:

- NextJS [API Routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) with the [Optional catch all API route](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/dynamic-api-routes#optional-catch-all-api-routes)
- NextJS [API middleware](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/api-middlewares) using [`http-proxy-middleware`](https://github.com/chimurai/http-proxy-middleware)
- a way to pick the proper URL to the proxy (`PROXY_ENV` in this case)

```js
// pages/api/[[...slug]].ts
import { IncomingMessage } from 'http';
import { createProxyMiddleware } from 'http-proxy-middleware';
import { NextApiRequest, NextApiResponse } from 'next';

let apiUrl: string;

> switch (process.env.PROXY_ENV) { // pick API endpoint depending on the PROXY_ENV, assign to apiUrl }

Reviewer: This should probably be a multiline comment to avoid commenting out the closing }

## Motivation

> When developing applications, sometimes you want to test your local changes against data from a different environment. For example: creating a production hotfix requires you to locally connect to the production API. Maybe even testing the solution on a different device e.g. a [phone connected to your machine](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/remote-debugging). That API could have http-only cookies that cannot be manipulated on the client and require a proxy that can intercept a request and do some modifications on it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When developing applications, you sometimes want to test your local changes against data from a different environment. For example, creating a production hotfix requires you to locally connect to the production API. Maybe even testing the solution on a different device, e.g. a [phone connected to your machine](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/remote-debugging). That API could have http-only cookies that cannot be manipulated on the client and require a proxy that can intercept some requests and do some modifications to them.
```

- [custom reverse proxy](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/master/examples/with-custom-reverse-proxy)
- [redirects](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/redirects)

The problem with the former is that it runs on a different server. When testing local changes on e.g. a phone, we will get unresolvable CORS issues.
The problem with the latter is that NextJS redirects don't provide a possibility to manipulate requests and/or responses. They just redirect.

## The fix

Prerequisites:

- NextJS [API Routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) with the [Optional catch all API route](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/dynamic-api-routes#optional-catch-all-api-routes)
- NextJS [API middleware](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/api-middlewares) using [`http-proxy-middleware`](https://github.com/chimurai/http-proxy-middleware)
- a way to pick the proper URL to the proxy (`PROXY_ENV` in this case)

```js
// pages/api/[[...slug]].ts
import { IncomingMessage } from 'http';
import { createProxyMiddleware } from 'http-proxy-middleware';
import { NextApiRequest, NextApiResponse } from 'next';

let apiUrl: string;

> switch (process.env.PROXY_ENV) { 

Reviewer 3: it would be good to default to NODE_ENV if PROXY_ENV is not set

Author: TIL you can have logical conditions in a switch condition :D

what do you think about this @andreicek?

```js
switch (process.env.PROXY_ENV || process.env.NODE_ENV) {...} 
```

Also, the default value in the switch should cover the default API (staging), so I'm not sure if it's necessary.

  // pick API endpoint depending on the PROXY_ENV, assign to apiUrl 
  case 'production':
    apiUrl = 'https://production.example.com';
    break;
  case 'uat':
    apiUrl = 'https://uat.example.com';
    break;
  default:
    apiUrl = 'https://staging.example.com';
}

const proxy = createProxyMiddleware({
  target: apiUrl,
  changeOrigin: true,

>   logLevel: 'debug',

Reviewer 3: this should be controller over a global log level which you should have in your app. debug log can be huge and a privacy issue on production sites.

Author: Great point!

What do you think about the following:

```js
...
const proxy = createProxyMiddleware({
  target: apiUrl,
  changeOrigin: true,
  logLevel: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development' ? 'debug' : 'silent',
 ...
```

  cookieDomainRewrite: 'localhost',
  onProxyRes: (proxyRes: IncomingMessage) => { 
    // You can manipulate the cookie here

    if (!proxyRes.headers['set-cookie']) {
      return;
    }

    // For example you can remove secure and SameSite security flags so browser can save the cookie in dev env
    const adaptCookiesForLocalhost = proxyRes.headers['set-cookie'].map((cookie) =>
      cookie.replace(/; secure/gi, '').replace(/; SameSite=None/gi, ''),
    );

    proxyRes.headers['set-cookie'] = adaptCookiesForLocalhost;
  },

>   onError: (err: Error) => console.error(err),

Reviewer 3: you should detail how (if) to recover from an error, even if console log is enough for an example.

});

export default function handler(req: NextApiRequest, res: NextApiResponse<unknown>) {

>   // Don't allow requests to hit the proxy when not in development mode

Reviewer 3: can you skip inclusion of this file if you're not in a production build? webpack has a feature for this - don't know if iti's supported in next.js

Author: @andreicek googled but didn't find anything useful. NextJS uses some kind of "proprietary" webpack (correct me if I am wrong @isBatak ), so not all webpack possibilities are doable with NextJS.

Reviewer 3: ok

  // NextJS doesn't allow conditional API routes
  if (process.env.NODE_ENV !== 'development') {
    return res.status(404).json({ message: 'Not found' });
  }
  // @ts-ignore
  return proxy(req, res);
}

export const config = {
  api: {
    bodyParser: false, // enable POST requests
    externalResolver: true, // hide warning message
  },
};
```

We can then run `PROXY_ENV=<insert-env> next dev` and then NextJS development instance will point to the appropriate API endpoint.

## The implications

> The only problem with this approach is that the defined NextJS route (`pages/api/[[...slug]]`) can be reached in production since NextJS doesn't support conditional removal of API routes. We avoided the invocation of the proxy middleware by check if the current environment is NOT "development" and returned a 404 (can be changed to something more suitable).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The only problem with this approach is that the defined NextJS route (`pages/api/[[...slug]]`) can be reached in production because NextJS doesn't support conditional removal of API routes. We can avoid the invocation of the proxy middleware by checking if the current environment is NOT "development" and return a 404 (can be changed to something more suitable).
```

> The only problem with this approach is that the defined NextJS route (`pages/api/[[...slug]]`) can be reached in production since NextJS doesn't support conditional removal of API routes. We avoided the invocation of the proxy middleware by check if the current environment is NOT "development" and returned a 404 (can be changed to something more suitable).

Reviewer 2: This part makes is sound like we are misusing this feature a bit. It seems like the original intended purpose of API Routes was not to have a local development proxy.

Author: @fvoska that is kind of right, but there is no other way atm if you want the proxy on the same server. [Redirects](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/redirects) looked promising, but you can use them only for redirection, and can't manipulate request/response :( when they add that, this whole API routes thing becomes obsolete
